OSPF
Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) is a routing protocol for IP. It is a link-state protocol, as opposed to a distance-vector protocol. 
A link-state protocol makes routing decisions based on the states of the links that connect source and destination machines. 
The state of a link is a description of that interface and the relationship to its neighboring networking devices. The interface 
information includes the IPv6 prefix of the interface, the network mask, the type of network it is connected to, the routers connected 
to that network, and so forth. This information is propagated in various type of link-state advertisements (LSAs).
OSPF version 3, which is described in RFC 2740, supports IPv6.

Before you enable OSPF for IPv6 on an interface, you must perform the following:
Complete the OSPF network strategy and planning for your IPv6 network. For example, you must decide whether multiple areas are required.
Enable IPv6 unicast routing.
Enable IPv6 on the interface.
Configure the IP Security (IPsec) secure socket application program interface (API) on OSPF for IPv6 in order to enable 
authentication and encryption.

Advantages of MultiArea OSPF .

To divide your large OSPF network into area has the following advantages:

•  Reduced frequency of SPF calculations: Detailed route information exists within each area, link-state changes not flooded to other 
   areas

•  Smaller routing tables: Instead of advertising these explicit routes outside the area, routers can be configured to summarize the 
   routes into one or more summary addresses.

Reduced LSU overhead: Rather than send an LSU about each network within an area, a router can advertise a single summarized route or 
small number of routes between areas.

Backbone area :

Area whose primary function is the fast and efficient movement of IP packets.

•  Interconnect with other OSPF area types
•  Known as OSPF area 0 which all other areas must directly connect to.

Regular area (Non-backbone) :

•  Connects users and resources.

•  A regular area does not allow traffic from another area to use its links to reach other areas. All traffic from other areas 
   must cross through area 0.



OSPFv2 and OSPFv3 Compared

Many aspects of the OSPF routing protocol remain the same between OSPFv2 and OSPFv3; such as the LSA flooding rules, the LSA aging 
mechanisms, and the interface types (broadcast, point-to-point, point-to-multipoint, among others). OSPFv3 Packet and LSA formats 
differ from OSPFv2. Specifically, OSPFv3 adds two new LSA types for Link (0x0008, tells neighbors about link-local addresses and IPv6 
prefixes on link) and Intra-Area-Prefix (0x2009, IPv6 prefixes connected to a router). OSPFv2 has two flooding scope, AS wide and area 
wide but now OSPFv3 has three flooding scopes (noted with the S1 and S2 bits).

Here is a list of the similarities between OSPFv2 and OSPFv3:

Both are link-state Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP) routing protocols
Both use a 2-level hierarchy with Area 0.0.0.0 at the core
Both use Area Border Routers (ABRs) and Autonomous System Boundary Routers (ASBRs)
Both use the Shortest Path First (SPF) calculation within each area utilizing Edsger Dijkstra's SPF algorithm
Both use metrics that are based on interface bandwidth (or manual configuration)
Both have 5 common protocol packet types: Hello, Database description (DBD), Link-state request (LSR), Link-state update (LSU), 
Link-state acknowledgment (LSA)
They use similar interface types: Broadcast, P2P, P2MP, NBMA, and Virtual-Links
They have the same LSA flooding and aging timers
Here is a list of the differences between OSPFv2 and OSPFv3:
They use different address families (OSPFv2 is for IPv4-only, OSPFv3 can be used for IPv6-only or both protocols 
(more on this following))

OSPFv3 introduces new LSA types
OSPFv3 has different packet format
OSPFv3 uses different flooding scope bits (U/S2/S1)
OSPFv3 adjacencies are formed over link-local IPv6 communications
OSPFv3 runs per-link rather than per-subnet
OSPFv3 supports multiple instances on a single link, Interfaces can have multiple IPv6 addresses
OSPFv3 uses multicast addresses FF02::5 (all OSPF routers), FF02::6 (all OSPF DRs)
OSPFv3 Neighbor Authentication done with IPsec (AH)
OSPFv2 Router ID (RID) must be manually configured, still a 32-bit number
