OSPFv3 security

OSPFv3 doesn’t have an authentication field in its header like OSPFv2 does, instead it relies on IPsec to get the job done.
IPsec supports two encapsulation types. The first one is AH (Authentication Header) which as the name implies, authenticates the header. 
The other encapsulation type is ESP (Encapsulating Security Payload) which encrypts packets. We can use both for OSPFv3 so besides 
authentication, encryption is also a possibility.

OSPFv3 uses the IP authentication header (AH) and the IP Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) portions of the IPsec Protocol to 
authenticate routing information between peers. AH can provide connectionless integrity and data origin authentication. It also 
provides protection against replays. AH authenticates as much of the IP header as possible, as well as the upper-level protocol data. 
However, some IP header fields might change in transit. Because the value of these fields might not be predictable by the sender, they 
cannot be protected by AH. ESP can provide encryption and limited traffic flow confidentiality or connectionless integrity, data origin 
authentication, and an anti-replay service.
IPsec is based on security associations (SAs). An SA is a set of IPsec specifications that are negotiated between devices that are 
establishing an IPsec relationship. This simplex connection provides security services to the packets carried by the SA. These 
specifications include preferences for the type of authentication, encryption, and IPsec protocol to be used when establishing the 
IPsec connection. An SA is used to encrypt and authenticate a particular flow in one direction. Therefore, in normal bidirectional 
traffic, the flows are secured by a pair of SAs. An SA to be used with OSPFv3 must be configured manually and use transport mode.
Static values must be configured on both ends of the SA.
Manual SAs require no negotiation between the peers. All values, including the keys, are static and specified in the configuration. 
Manual SAs statically define the security parameter index (SPI) values, algorithms, and keys to be used and require matching 
configurations on both end points (OSPFv3 peers). As a result, each peer must have the same configured options for communication to 
take place.

The following restrictions apply to IPsec authentication for OSPFv3:

Dynamic Internet Key Exchange (IKE) security associations (SAs) are not supported.
Only IPsec transport mode is supported. In transport mode, only the payload (the data you transfer) of the IP packet is encrypted and/or 
authenticated. Tunnel mode is not supported. Because only bidirectional manual SAs are supported, all OSPFv3 peers must be configured
with the same IPsec SA. You configure a manual bidirectional SA at the [edit security ipsec] hierarchy level.You must configure the 
same IPsec SA for all virtual links with the same remote endpoint address.

In order to ensure that OSPFv3 packets are not altered and re-sent to the device, causing the device to behave in a way not desired by 
its system administrators, OSPFv3 packets must be authenticated. OSPFv3 uses the IPsec secure socket API to add authentication to 
OSPFv3 packets. This API supports IPv6.
OSPFv3 requires the use of IPsec to enable authentication. Crypto images are required to use authentication, because only crypto images 
include the IPsec API needed for use with OSPFv3.
In OSPFv3, authentication fields have been removed from OSPFv3 packet headers. When OSPFv3 runs on IPv6, OSPFv3 requires the IPv6 
authentication header (AH) or IPv6 ESP header to ensure integrity, authentication, and confidentiality of routing exchanges. IPv6 
AH and ESP extension headers can be used to provide authentication and confidentiality to OSPFv3.
To use the IPsec AH, you must enable the ipv6 ospf authentication command. To use the IPsec ESP header, you must enable the ipv6 ospf 
encryption command. The ESP header may be applied alone or in combination with the AH, and when ESP is used, both encryption and 
authentication are provided. Security services can be provided between a pair of communicating hosts, between a pair of communicating 
security gateways, or between a security gateway and a host.
To configure IPsec, you configure a security policy, which is a combination of the security policy index (SPI) and the key (the key is 
used to create and validate the hash value). IPsec for OSPFv3 can be configured on an interface or on an OSPFv3 area. For higher 
security, you should configure a different policy on each interface configured with IPsec. If you configure IPsec for an OSPFv3 area, 
the policy is applied to all of the interfaces in that area, except for the interfaces that have IPsec configured directly. Once IPsec 
is configured for OSPFv3, IPsec is invisible to you.
The secure socket API is used by applications to secure traffic. The API needs to allow the application to open, listen, and close 
secure sockets. The binding between the application and the secure socket layer also allows the secure socket layer to inform the 
application of changes to the socket, such as connection open and close events. The secure socket API is able to identify the socket; 
that is, it can identify the local and remote addresses, masks, ports, and protocol that carry the traffic requiring security.

Each interface has a secure socket state, which can be one of the following:

NULL: Do not create a secure socket for the interface if authentication is configured for the area.

DOWN: IPsec has been configured for the interface (or the area that contains the interface), but OSPFv3 either has not requested 
IPsec to create a secure socket for this interface, or there is an error condition.

GOING UP: OSPFv3 has requested a secure socket from IPsec and is waiting for a CRYPTO_SS_SOCKET_UP message from IPsec.

UP: OSPFv3 has received a CRYPTO_SS_SOCKET_UP message from IPsec.

CLOSING: The secure socket for the interface has been closed. A new socket may be opened for the interface, in which case the current 
secure socket makes the transition to the DOWN state. Otherwise, the interface will become UNCONFIGURED.

UNCONFIGURED: Authentication is not configured on the interface.
OSPFv3 will not send or accept packets while in the DOWN state.

source
http://packetlife.net/blog/2008/sep/3/ospfv3-authentication/
http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/ios-xml/ios/iproute_ospf/configuration/15-sy/iro-15-sy-book/ip6-route-ospfv3-auth-ipsec.html
https://networklessons.com/ipv6/ospfv3-authentication-and-encryption/
http://www.juniper.net/documentation/en_US/junos15.1/topics/concept/ospfv3-authentication-overview.html
